# Design-of-Automatic-plant-irrigation-system-using-Arduino-Board

In present days, in the field of agriculture farmers are facing major problems in watering their crops. It’s because they don’t have proper idea about the availability of the power. Even if it is available, they need to pump water and wait until the field is properly watered, which compels them to stop doing other activities – which are also important for them, and thus they loss their precious time and efforts. But there is a solution – an automatic plant irrigation system not only helps farmers but also others for watering their gardens as well.

This automatic irrigation system senses the moisture content of the soil and automatically switches the pump when the power is on. A proper usage of irrigation system is very important because the main reason is the shortage of land reserved water due to lack of rain, unplanned use of water as a result large amounts of water goes waste. For this reason, we use this automatic plant watering system, and this system is very useful in all climatic conditions.

This project is Automatic plant irrigation system using Arduino Board, which automatically waters the plants. The system works when power supply is switched on and it stops working when power supply is switched off. Potentiometer is used as sensor to check the dryness and wetness of soil. When the reading in potentiometer is low it indicates dry soil, as a result the dc motor runs and the plant gets watered and high reading indicates wet soil, the dc motor stops running and as a result it stops watering. Switch on the water pump to provide water to the plant. Water pump gets automatically switched off when system finds enough moisture in the soil.
